---
title: Deltacloud - Download
extension: html
filter: markdown
---
Download
========
<h3 id="deltacloud-core">Deltacloud Core</h3>

Deltacloud Core provides the API server and drivers necessary for connecting
to the cloud providers.

The appropriate version of Deltacloud Core will be retrieved as part of the 
Cloud Engine installation process.

<h3 id="deltacloud-aggregator">Deltacloud Aggregator</h3>

Deltacloud Aggregator provides a web-based user interface for managing your
cloud instances.  

 + **NOTE:** The current installation process **deletes** any existing data in your postrgresql database.  
Either ensure that your data is backed up and restorable or consider installing Deltacloud  
Aggregator on a box that does not need postgresql for any other purpose.

 + **NOTE:** The current installation process calls for selinux to be in permissive mode.  
This is not recommended on a mission-critical machine.

#### Installation Steps ####

1. Deltacloud Aggregator requires specific versions of the livecd-tools and python-imgcreate packages.  
Remove any existing version before installing.

		$ sudo yum remove livecd-tools python-imgcreate
	
1.  In order to integrate with the Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2), Deltacloud Aggregator uses ec2-ami-tools.  
This package is freely available, but can not be bundled with Deltacloud Aggregator  
due to licensing concerns. Before installing the Deltacloud Aggregator, install ec2-ami-tools.

		$ sudo yum install http://s3.amazonaws.com/ec2-downloads/ec2-ami-tools.noarch.rpm --nogpg
 
	
1.  Set up the deltacloud repository.
		$ sudo wget -O /etc/yum.repos.d/fedora-deltacloud.repo \
			http://repos.fedorapeople.org/repos/deltacloud/appliance/fedora-appliance.repo

1.  Now install the configuration tool:
		$ sudo yum install deltacloud-configure
	
#### Deltacloud Aggregator Configuration ####

1.  Open port 80 on the firewall so that web traffic may be served.

1.  Set SELinux to permissive mode.
		sudo setenforce 0
		
1.  Ensure that the time is set correctly.  Failure to do so cause connectivity issues  
with Amazon Elastic Cloud Compute (EC2)

1.  Clean up any existing remanents from an older installation.  
**Note**:  this will destroy any existing data in the postgres database.
		sudo  /usr/sbin/deltacloud-cleanup
		
1.  Configure Deltacloud Aggregator.
		sudo /usr/sbin/deltacloud-configure
		
#### Verify Installation ####

1.  Browse to:  http://<machine_name>/deltacloud   
A default administrative account has been created with a username "admin"  
and a password "password" (no quotes)
	
1.  Browse to:  http://localhost:3002/api  
Ensure that a page is visible.  This URL should be used as the  
"Provider URL" in the "Manage Providers" screen within the Deltacloud Aggregator application.

### Become a contributor ###
If you would like to examine the source code or contribute to the project, you
can get the source code on our [Contribute page][Contribute].

[Contribute]: ./contribute.html



Additional Tools
----------------
These are complementary to the essential Core/Aggregator components.

<h3 id="libdeltacloud">libdeltacloud</h3>

A library for accessing the Deltacloud API from C/C++ programs.

You can get the source code:

    $ git clone git://git.fedorahosted.org/deltacloud/libdeltacloud.git

Or you can download the RPMs for Fedora 12 and 13:

<http://people.redhat.com/clalance/libdeltacloud>

Contributed by Chris Lalancette.


<h3 id="deltacloud-client">Deltacloud Client</h3>

Deltacloud Client is a command line tool that communicates with the
Deltacloud&nbsp;API.

Type the following command to install it:

    $ gem install deltacloud-core

<h3 id="virtualbox-driver">Deltacloud driver for VirtualBox</h3>

<http://gitorious.org/deltacloud-devel/deltacloud-virtualbox-driver>

Contributed by Michal Fojtik.

### Your name here ###

Do you have a tool to make Deltacloud more useful? Let us know on our
[deltacloud-devel mailing list][deltacloud-devel] and we'll post it here!

[deltacloud-devel]: https://fedorahosted.org/mailman/listinfo/deltacloud-devel
