---
title: Aeolus Project - Conductor Use
area: projects
subarea: conductor
extension: html
filter:
  - markdown
---
# Post-Installation Usage Guide

Now that you have successfully installed the set of aeolus conductor packages
and run aeolus-configure, you can use the web interface to start and
manage instances. We'll be using EC2 as the 'back end' cloud provider for
these instructions, although this is only one of many cloud services providers
you can manage with aeolus conductor.

#### Change Default Administrator Password ####

The post-install default username/password combination is admin/password. We
strongly recommend changing the default password as a basic protection against
unauthorized use of your cloud resources.

1. First browse to http://localhost/conductor/login

1. In the Administer section, click 'System Settings', then Manage Users.

1. Select the 'admin' user's radio button, and click 'edit' lefthand column, or
just click the admin username link. Enter and confirm a new password and
click 'save'.

#### Add a Provider ####

The next step is to add a cloud services Provider whose resources will be
added to your Pool.

1. In the Administer section, click 'System Settings', and then
'Manage Providers' in the resulting screen.

1. On the 'Manage Providers' page, in the left hand-navigation column under
'Providers', click 'Add'.

1. Enter a name for the provider (e.g. 'ec2') and for Provider URL, use
'http://localhost:3002/api'. You can test the provider URL by clicking
'Test Connection' and then add the provider if the connection test succeeds.

You should now see your new provider listed on the left column labeled
'Providers,' and you should be at the Provider Summary for the new Provider.

#### Add a Provider Account ####

The Provider Account you add in this step will allow Aeolus Conductor to access
your Provider's resources using the account credentials.

1. Click 'Provider Accounts' above the summary information area. Since you
haven't previously added any accounts, you'll start at the NEW ACCOUNT form.

1. Since we're using EC2, you will need five pieces of security credentials:
    * Access Key ID
    * Secret Access Key
    * AWS Account ID
    * EC2 x509 private key
    * EC2 x509 public key


    These can all be obtained via the [EC2 management console](https://aws-portal.amazon.com/gp/aws/developer/account/index.html?action=access-key)

    If you haven't already done so, you'll need to create a public/private
X.509 pair and save them in your filesystem. EC2 naming convention for the
private key is 'pk-ABCDEFG.pem', and for the public key, 'cert-HIJKLMN.pem'

1. Enter these 5 credentials and give your Provider Account a name of your
choosing (e.g. 'myEC2'). For now, leave the 'Quota Instance' field set to the
default value of 'unlimited'.

(Note that if you test the account settings before clicking 'Add' you'll need to re-select your x.509 cert files.)

#### Create a Hardware Profile ####

The next thing you need to do is to create a Hardware Profile.  A Hardware Profile allows you to specify the minimum resource requirements for Memory, CPU and storage, and also what type of archtecture the your cloud instance should be.

In order to create a hardware profile choose "Admin" from the main menu, then choose the subheading "Hardware Profiles".  The first time you navigate to this page *no Hardware Profiles will be shown in the list.  To create one click on the "New Hardware Profile" Button.  This will take you to a form where you can fill in your minimum requirements for Memory, CPU, Storage and the type of architecture.  Since we only support building of 64bit images (explained in the next section: "Create a Template"), be sure to select "x86_64" for your architecture.

Before you save your Hardware Profile you first need to check that there are some matching Hardware Profiles offered by your provider.  To check to see if the provider you added in this example Amazon EC2, offers a Hardware Profile that satisfies your given requirements, click on the "Check Matches" button.  If a match was successful it will be shown in the lower window labelled "Matching Provider Hardware Profiles".

Once you have a match you are ready to save.  Be sure you give a name to your Hardware Profile by filling in the "Name" input box then click on the "Save" button.  Your Hardware Profile will then be saved and you will be redirected back the "Hardware Profiles" page, where you can view and edit your Hardware Profile at a later date.

#### Create a Template ####

Now that your pool contains a cloud provider and you have setup some Hardware Profiles, you need to create an image to
run an instance in your cloud. Please note that image building is currently
supported only on 64-bit versions of Fedora 13, the platform we use for
development and testing.

1. In the 'Define' section, click 'Deployables'. Then in the left hand
navigation bar, under CREATE NEW, click 'Template'.

1. Give your template a name, and select 'Fedora 13 (64-bit)' for Platform
Choice. Support for building RHEL images is forthcoming but not yet available.

1. You'll see that you have the option to 'Add Software' packages from
available repos, but refrain from adding any for your first image build. The
default image for development contains a base set of packages that will allow
you to do basic things like ssh in to your instance, etc. Once you're sure
that your end-to-end setup is functional, you can experiment with adding
packages to image builds.
Please also note the caveat that when using EC2 there is a 9.9GB image
size limit, and exceeding it may lead to failed builds or instance starts.
Aeolus Conductor does not currently precalculate image sizes.

1. After saving your template, you should see it listed in all three sections
of the Deployables screen: Templates, Assemblies and Deployables. For the
moment, only Templates are functional. Select your new Template's radio button
and click 'Build.'

#### Build an Image ####

1. On the following Build Request screen, be sure 'Amazon EC2' is checked as
the Provider Format, and click 'Submit to Build'. You should now see the
Builds screen with your new template in the 'RUNNING' table with 'queued' or
'building' status. Refresh this page periodically to check the progress of
your build request.

If your build fails, you will see a new table listing failed builds. If
the build succeeds, you will see it in a Completed table, with status of 'OK'.

Once your build has completed, you can use it to start an instance. In
the 'RUN' section, click 'Instance Management' and then the 'Launch Instance'
button. Click the 'Launch' button under your new template's description.

This brings you to the Launch Instance screen, where you should give your
instance an identifying Name, select a hardware profile from the
Hardware Profile dropdown, optionally choose a desired Realm, and then
click 'Launch'. Typical instance start times are under five minutes, but
your mileage may vary.

Waiting for your new instance to start is an excellent time to confirm that
your default security groups setting on EC2 allows connections via SSH on
port 22. Consult EC2 documentation if you haven't already configured your
default security group settings. This can be configured before, during, or
after your instance's start up and takes effect immediately.

#### Connect to Your New Instance ####

Once you can see that your instance is in state 'running', you should
download its ssh private key and try connecting to it.

1. In the 'RUN' section, click 'Instance Management', select the radio button
of your running instance, and click 'Instance Details'.

1. Click the link to download your instance's ssh key and save it to your
filesystem.

1. 'chmod 600' the file you downloaded

1. Now you should be able to connect with:

       $ ssh -i the-key-you-downloaded.pem ec2-user@ec2-xxx-xxx-xxx-xxx.compute-1.amazonaws.com

    (substituting your actual key filename and FQHN)
