# Deltacloud Drivers

The Deltacloud project current delivers two functional drivers, plus
a mock driver for testing without a cloud provider.

- Amazon EC2
- Red Hat Enterprise Virtualization Manager (RHEV-M)

## Setting up the code

To set up a given driver, currently, you must checkout the code
for both the [framework](framework.html) and the drivers you wish to use.

Check out the repositories side-by-side

    deltacloud/
      framework/
      driver-ec/
      driver-rhevm/
      driver-mock/
      driver-rackspace/

## Launch the framework

To launch the framework, you must tell it which driver to use.  This can
be accomplished either through editing the `config/environment.rb` of the framework,
or by setting the `$DRIVER` environment variable.

If adjusting `config/environment.rb` the `DEFAULT_DRIVER` variable should be set

    DEFAULT_DRIVER=:rhevm

Even if set, it may still be overwritten by the `$DRIVER` environment variable
which takes precendence.

Once configured, simply launch `script/server` for the framework.

    $ ./script/server

(Or using the `$DRIVER` variable)

    $ DRIVER=ec2 ./script/server

### EC2 Driver

When using the driver for Amazon EC2, the credentials passed in
response to the HTTP 401 authentication challenge should be your
*access_key* and *secret_access_key*

These credentials may be found on the [Access Identifiers](http://aws-portal.amazon.com/gp/aws/developer/account/index.html?action=access-key)
page at Amazon AWS.

### RHEV-M Driver

The RHEV-M driver needs to be installed on a Windows machine which has the RHEV-M
Powershell API installed and configured. Assuming the directory structure above is
followed, you should copy the file 
deltacloud/deltacloud-driver-rhevm/config/rhevm_config.yaml.EXAMPLE to be
rhevm_config.yaml and edit the file woith the domain you are logging into.
The username and pasword is provided via the API.

The actual RHEVM instance you are connecting to is controlled by
the RHEVM.dll.config file which is referenced from the profile.ps1
file located in My Documents/WindowsPowershell directory


### Rackspace Driver

When using the Rackspace-cloud driver (Rackspace cloud used to be called "Mosso") - the password in a HTTP 401 challenge should be your API key, NOT your rackspace account password.
(you can get the API-key, or generate a new one, from the rackspace console). 


