# Image Builder #

## Summary ##

The image builder is an external service that allows the aggregator to
build images for multiple cloud providers from a single image
descriptor. The builder exposes its services as a QMF agent and uses
XML for the descriptor format.

The resulting images are transferred to an image repository component
that pushes the resulting images out to the appropriate cloud
provider.


## Status ##

The image builder is being actively developed. This is a very early
version, and it should in no way be considered either stable or
production-ready. At present it supports only Fedora and RHEL based
distributions via the BoxGrinder imaging tool. It is not yet
integrated with the image repository.

As a result, images are stored locally on the host running the image
builder QMF agent. Delivery to specific cloud back ends must be done
manually. As development progresses, there will be much more
integration of these pieces

Please check back on this space often as we update documentation and
status of the Image Builder. For additional information on how to use
what we currently have, take a look at the README in our repo, which
you can get here:

    git clone git://git.fedorahosted.org/git/deltacloud/image_builder.git/


## XML Descriptor ##

This format is still in flux, but describes things such as:

* Image Name
* Image Description
* Base Operating System and Version
* Sources where software should be retrieved
* List of packages to install
* Services required by this image
